[Music]
now it's your second most complex organ
after the brain and it's responsible for
80 percent of everything you learn yep
I'm talking about your spleen no wait
it's your eyes yeah how many colors can
they distinguish and why do you have way
more in common with sharks than you
think
let's see your eye has over two million
working parts 1 million nerve fibers
connected to the brain as all the pieces
work together they process around 36,000
bits of information per hour the eyes
see things upside down the brain then
interprets this information and flips
the images for us that's because the
cornea is curved and light bends when it
goes through it your eyeball is around
the same size as a gumball you can get
from a grocery store gumball machine the
lens in the eye is the size of an M&M
candy
it also has protein filling mm-hmm the
human eye can distinguish 10 million
colors all of them are combinations of
three basic colors red green and blue
out of those 10 million people see more
shades of green than any other color
iris scans are way more individual than
fingerprints compare these figures your
fingerprint has 40 unique features and
your iris has 256
that's why biometric iris scans are the
present and future of security checks if
you put all the eyelashes you'll shed
during your life in one line it will be
98 feet long it differs from person to
person but you lose on average one to
five lashes a day eyelashes live for
about five months
the first creatures to have eyes were
single-celled organisms some 550 million
years ago I wasn't around that their
eyes didn't look anything like ours they
were patches of photoreceptor protein do
you often get red eyes and photos blame
your blood vessels when the light from
the camera flash gets reflected it
lights up the blood vessels at the back
of your eyes hence the red color your
eye size and shape affect your vision
people with larger eyes are often
nearsighted and those who have eyes a
bit shorter than average are likely to
be farsighted this has to do with how
eyes reflect light shark cornea is
almost 100% the same as the human one in
the future it might allow scientists to
use shark cornea proteins to create
biomaterials for making cornea
substitutes for people yes there's
something fishy going on here you can
sunburn your eyes
symptoms resemble those of skin sunburn
plus blurry vision
you can't put sunscreen on your eyes
ouch but remember to wear quality
sunglasses for UV protection everyone
even a person with perfect vision has a
blind spot it's on top of where the
optic nerve meets the retina you aren't
likely to notice it unless you
experiment on purpose your brain fills
in the missing data for you now 10,000
years ago everybody had just one eye
color brown the first blue-eyed person
was born as a result of a genetic
mutation if you have blue eyes that was
your ancestor you share him or her with
10% of the world's population the most
popular eye color is still brown my
muscles are the fastest at the mall they
enable your eyes to move at a speed of
500 degrees per second they can also
focus on 50 different objects in just a
second many of the moves your eyes make
are automatic that's why you can see
something on the periphery
without actually looking there now you
blink about 15 or 20 times a minute
20,000 to 30,000 times a day and at
least wu-seven million times a year each
blink lasts just a moment and still when
you sum up all of them it's
one-and-a-half hours daily you believe
more when you're talking and less when
you're reading a book or something from
a computer screen that's why in the
second case your eyes get tired faster
blinking helps your eyes stay clean and
healthy the resolution of the human eye
is 576 megapixels but before you throw
away your expensive camera which is not
nearly as good hear me out
the eyes only have that many color
receptors in a tiny spot in the center
you need to move them a lot to get the
full picture you never sneeze with your
eyes open it is technically possible but
an absolute majority of people have an
automatic reflex to shut their eyelids
when they're about to sneeze an adult
with healthy vision can detect a candle
flame from as far away as 1.7 miles this
distance could probably be even bigger
if the Earth's surface wasn't curvy and
there weren't other sources of light and
natural obstructions newborn babies are
colorblind and even though the little
ones make a lot of crying sounds they
never really shed tears the tear ducts
only start properly functioning when
babies are somewhere between four and
thirteen weeks old but yeah they cry
from day one
it also takes some time for babies to
learn to see in the womb their eyes get
ready to distinguish shapes some colors
and light but right after birth babies
can only focus on something that's very
close to them like a parents face when
they hold them learning to focus
properly move their eyes and interpret
visual information that goes from the
eyes to the brain takes time 20/20 has
nothing to do with perfect vision it
only means you can see as well as other
people from a distance of 20 feet those
with the sharpest eyes have 2010 vision
it means they can see from 20 feet with
the average person would only spot from
10 feet there is a gel-like fluid in
your eyes it makes up 80% of the eye and
floats between the lens and the retina
it helps your eyes stay in shape and
protects the retina when you're young
the fluid is as thick as jello as you
get older it becomes more liquid torino
your eyebrows and eyelashes have
important protective functions the
eyebrow stops wet and other liquids from
getting into your eyes eyelashes don't
let in moisture dust sand and other
particles that are in the air and now do
you know how long eyelashes help cam
will survive in the desert nope they
don't wink at travellers asking for
water the long eyelashes keep sand out
of their eyes and since we've moved on
to animals some of them have pretty cool
eyes too ostriches have eyes that are as
big as billiard balls each eye is also
larger than the bird's brain no wonder
they're the champions of the land animal
kingdom when it comes to the eye size
huge eyes and a small brain might be the
reason why ostriches run in circles when
they see predators not the smartest
tactics right the colossal squid has the
largest eyes in the world each the size
of a soccer ball
hamsters blink for the same reason as
humans to get rid of dust and other
unwanted particles but they only blink
one eye at a time and keep looking
around with the other to stay alert
geckos can distinguish colors 350 times
better than humans they can even see
colors at night and notice ultraviolet
and green light since they don't have
eyelids and can't blink they lick their
eyes to clean them and keep them moist
boy that's a tongue chameleons eyes are
cool and unique
these animals have 360-degree vision
their eyes can also function
independently it means they can switch
from binocular to monocular vision for
example when they hunt
many insects including bees dragonflies
and wasps have five eyes two on the
sides and three more set in a triangle
on top of their heads they use the extra
eyes to detect light and spot upcoming
threats some fish also have more than
two eyes with four eyes and a bleeps can
see above and below the water at the
same time the box jellyfish go even
further these creatures have 24 eyes
they help them navigate under the water
without bumping into things hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life